# Adwords script generator

# Overview

Adwords script generator is a Google Script webapp to generate Adwords scripts for reporting in a couple clicks. You can take a look at the full list of available report types [here](https://developers.google.com/adwords/api/docs/appendix/reports).

## Live Demo

Click [here](https://script.google.com/macros/s/AKfycbwuEjqPwOiCJtsveC7DDUhvokIUCmLJOfIxwJSxWRFOlL5cTxM/exec) to see the Adwords script generator in action.

## Development

### With the Google Apps Script editor
To create your own version of the Adwords script generator, click [here](https://script.google.com/d/1vd_nMcJeckNzLFPAw9_49neu3owLb9CA2h3lStcqB1R9O-yYKzvE4Pon/edit?usp=sharing) and choose **File > Make a copy...** in the Google Apps Script editor.

### Locally with Gapps

Using [gapps](https://github.com/danthareja/node-google-apps-script), you can develop your Apps Script locally and push files to the Apps Script servers. This allows you to use any editor of your choice, version control, and other modern webdev patterns in to Apps Script development.

### Requirements
  - [node >= 8](https://nodejs.org/download/)
  - `npm install -g node-google-apps-script`

#### 1. Generating credentials
1. Create a new Google script project
2. While working in the editor on [script.google.com](https://script.google.com) select `Resources > Cloud Platform Project...`
3. Click on the (`API Project - api-project-##########`) link from the list.
4. Click `APIs & services` in the left nav and then select `Library`
5. Search for `Drive` and select the Google Drive API listing.
6. Click `Enable API`
4. Go back to `APIs & services` in the left nav and then select `Credentials`
5. Select `Create credentials` and choose `OAuth client ID`
6. Select `Other` 
7. Give it any name you like (i.e. Macbook) and click `Create`.
8. Finally, download your credentials using the `Download as JSON` button to the right. Save these credentials to a location of your choosing; `~/Downloads` is fine.
9. You may close the Developer Console window.

#### 2. Authenticate gapps

This process will set up Google Drive authentication to allow uploading and importing of the Apps Script project.

1. Run `gapps auth path/to/client_secret_abcd.json` i.e. ```gapps auth ~/Downloads/client_secret_1234567890-abcd.apps.googleusercontent.com.json```
1. Follow the directions by clicking on the link generated by the script.
1. After you're successfully authenticated, feel free to delete the `client_secret.json` credentials file.

You can pass the option `--no-launch-browser` to generate a url that will give you a code to paste back into the console. This is useful if you're using ssh to develop.

#### 3. Initialize your project

This proces will create `gapps.config.json`. 
1. Navigate to your Apps Script project from Google Drive
1. Get your project ID from the address bar, located after `/d/` and before `/edit` i.e. ```//script.google.com/a/google.com/d/__abc123-xyz098__/edit?usp=drive_web```
1. Navigate to a directory where your Apps Script project will live
1. Run `gapps init <fileId>` within your project directory i.e. `gapps init abc123-xyz098`

#### 4. Upload New Files

Run `gapps upload` from within your project directory. You should then be able to reload your Apps Script project in the browser and see the changes.

